---
layout: post
title: Comedy - 1
subtitle: Trying to be funny
tags: [Writing, Funny]
---

If you want an easy show, and want to garner some sympathy right before your stand-up act, (I'd know everything about that. Hint -  _I don't._) Eddie Izzard suggests that you dedicate that act to the death of a loved one. So, I decided, in my overly active imagination that _my_ first stand-up act would start exactly that way, but with a new twist to it of course, after I'd let the audience know, I'd announce that the only reason I'd said that was to garner a little sympathy. Then, I'd imagine the look on the audience's faces. Their expressions aghast with the wrongness of it all, and _that'd_ be my first joke. _Ooooooooh_, meta, my brain went. If it's meta, it's smart. 

The irony is that, I am now writing about how I'd make something funny by making it meta, thus adding another layer of meta to it. And, oh, just like that, I've added another, by pointing it out. This isn't going that well for a comedy piece.

It wouldn't be my first comedy act though, if I ever did it. Not really. Because I've actually performed on stage once. Just once. It was fourth, maybe fifth grade? My colony held a talent show of sorts, and my mum decided that I was to participate. To make me participate, she'd given me an illusion of choice - that I could do WHATEVER I want. It didn't _have_ to be singing or dancing. So I decided, I'd tell jokes. I didn't know I was doing stand-up then. Or maybe I did. I don't actually recall watching stand-up that young.

The jokes, I **did not** craft them myself. I just went through a few weeks' newspapers, and stole them. Yes, I stole jokes from newspapers. I don't remember any of them, save one. Whenever this memory hits me, it has the same effect that a cockroach spray has on a cockroach. I die.

I kid, of course. But you can imagine - the shudder, the cringe. The horror. This is the first time I've actually thought about making something I've written funny. It's a lot harder than actually being funny, in-person. Comedy has a rhythm, and a timing to it. I find it far easier to show that rhythm, and control of timing when I am trying to be funny in-person, versus here. 

Anyway, here's the joke - _What do you have left when you eat 8/10th's of a pie? Answer - An angry mother._

First of all, for someone to think that was even remotely funny, the first thought that should pop in their heads is "2/10th's of a pie". Nodody has that first thought. Secondly, I said this joke, in India. In Chennai. Nobody eats pie here. I didn't even have the foresight to change 'pie' to 'cake'. I finally understand the difficulty of writing a comedy special. It's an hour to an hour and a half long, and I can see the skill it takes. I now appreciate jokes even more.

Jokes that I find funny, have three properties. I only add "that I find funny" to be pedantic. These properties are shared by a lot of jokes. 
* They are unexpected. The best way, I've found, for a joke to fulfill this criteria, is by pushing boundaries.
* There's an exagerration. Anything can be funny, given the right kind of exagerration. George Carlin said that.
* They're honest. The greatest bits, are often very honest. Here's the thing about jokes that are trying to be honest - even if they suck, you still find some truth in them.

And with that, I hope, you've found some truth in this.

God, I use too many commas. 

