---
layout: post
title: Fickle
tags: [Writing, Rambles, Rants]
---

I hate how fickle our minds are. I love how malleable and plastic our minds are. I hate how I can be happy one moment, and sad the next. I hate how I have no control over myself. I love how life becomes interesting because of elements not under your control. Sometimes it feels like I am drawn to something, but I don't know what that thing is. It's a weird, sad feeling. If I could have complete control over myself, what would my life be like? Where would I be? Free from procrastination, from college, from etiquette, from the need to try and impress.

Will I ever really have control? Or have I been influenced by all the things around me, and now that the wheel is set in motion, I can do nothing about it? Am I equal to the sum of all my parts or am I greater than the sum of all my parts? Why do I need to be idealistic about everything? Maybe it's all the superhero fantasy stuff I saw as a kid. Strive to be something greater, they said. Do you even realize it, when you become "greater"? 

I know that this dissatisfaction I feel is normal. It propelled humanity to do something about themselves. But I hate feeling dissatisfied especially when there's no control. Is it normal to feel like you've bullshitted your way through life? Why is it that your accomplishments become a footnote but your failures stand out? Okay, maybe 'why' is a stupid question. I know why. I just dislike that it is the way it is. 

Exploration vs exploitation. Am I spending too much time exploiting and not enough time exploring? There's more knowledge, books, music than I will ever explore. Why do I enjoy things of a particular kind, put myself in an echo chamber and then worry about not 'broadening' myself as a person. The world isn't a zero sum game, right? What's going to happen? Is everyone going to be okay? What about universal basic income? Things are going to get pretty complicated soon, aren't they?

Despite all this, we've come far. We have oreos, man! Everything around us can be seen as a product of human ingenuity. Alone, very few of us are capable of anything meaningful that affects a large group of people. But, together, we're a force to be reckoned with. 

It's surprising how sometimes all it takes is a full stomach to make you feel better. 

If you were someone who was good at their craft, would you leave while you were at the top? Or would you never stop, because you never got good to be at the top; you only did it because you loved your craft. I don't know. Sometimes it feels like all I am doing is recycling ideas I've already consumed. But, isn't that the same with everyone? Why does it affect me so much that my ideas are not original? Will they ever be? 

Sometimes I can be so petty. And adamant. But I wouldn't change that, I think. Because, that way, when my stance on things does change, that change is meaningful. Or am I just trying to justify bad behavior? I don't know. Funny how that is the answer to so many questions put forward to me. Even if those questions come from myself. 

This turned out to be a pretty depressing post. I think I'll write the next one when I am feeling more positive, that way I can see, properly, how at different times, I view things at a different perspective. _But_, at least one good thing came out of this post. Writing this post lead to the googling of few things. Look what I found. 

>“But the worst enemy you can meet will always be yourself; you lie in wait for yourself in caverns and forests. Lonely one, you are going the way to yourself! And your way goes past yourself, and past your seven devils! You will be a heretic to yourself and witch and soothsayer and fool and doubter and unholy one and villain. You must be ready to burn yourself in your own flame: how could you become new, if you had not first become ashes?”
>
> ― Friedrich Nietzsche, Thus Spoke Zarathustra

I haven't read any Nietzsche. And maybe the quote I found is taken out of context. But it seems interesting and therefore, I am gonna check him out!
